Code of conduct template set (#246)
thegooddocsproject/templates: code-of-conduct/template-code-of-conduct.md

# Code of Conduct template

---
The Code of Conduct template includes:

* Placeholder text that you can replace with your own text. This text is indicated in {curly braces}.
* Writing instructions, also in {curly braces}.

> * A supplementary `code-of-conduct-guide.md` that provides more detailed information about using this template. Read the guide document first!

Reviewer: todo: As @flicstar pointed out earlier code-of-conduct-guide.md should be replaced with guide-code-of-conduct.md.

Author: I think I've standardized them all now, so we should be good.

> * The Code of Conduct template should be used along with several other templates, including:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

The Code of Conduct template should be used along with several other templates, including:

```
I think this is a new point. It doesn't match the stem sentence of "...includes:".

  * A `template-code-of-conduct-response.md` file that you can use to create and explain the policy your team will follow as you handle Code of Conduct incidents. This template is included in the same folder as the Code of Conduct template.

>   * A `template-code-of-conduct-incident-record.md` file for a form that is filled out when a community moderator takes an incident report from a community members. This template is included in the same folder as the Code of Conduct template.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * A `template-code-of-conduct-incident-record.md` file for a form that is filled out when a community moderator takes an incident report from a community member. This template is included in the same folder as the Code of Conduct template.

```

Author: Thanks, Felicity. I'm going to adopt your suggestion here, but I'm not going to commit it because it tends to cause problems for me.

>   * A `template-code-of-conduct-incident-record.md` file for a form that is filled out when a community moderator takes an incident report from a community members. This template is included in the same folder as the Code of Conduct template.

Reviewer 2: suggestion (polish): Change 'file for a form'
Just a suggestion to keep this parallel with the previous construction ("that you can use"), we could change this to something like "... file. This is a form the community moderator can use when..."

Author: I've adopted this suggestion and I've rewritten this section a little bit to add a little bit more clarity around the file names.

  * A `template-code-of-conduct-remediation-record.md` file for a form that is filled out when a community moderator meets with a community member to explain the consequences of a Code of Conduct violation. This template is included in the same folder as the Code of Conduct template.

>   * A `template-our-team.md` file that you can use to let community members know who they can contact to report a Code of Conduct violation. This document is not only necessary for Code of Conduct violations, so it is kept in a separate folder and directory.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * A `template-our-team.md` file that you can use to let community members know who they can contact to report a Code of Conduct violation. This document is useful beyond Code of Conduct violations, so it is kept in a separate folder and directory.

```
suggestion (reword): My eyes expected "is not only necessary, it's mandatory!" so I think we should reframe this. It is useful for more than, useful beyond, useful for other things....

Author: I agree. I've adopted this suggestion.

* See the accompanying `code-of-conduct-guide.md` file for more detailed information about using these templates.
---

{Include your project's opening statement of purpose in this section.

> You can use this boilerplate text and replace your own project's name in the indicated placeholder text.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Replace your own project's name in the indicated placeholder text.

```
Suggestion (non-blocking)
Only because it seems repetitive when you read the next sentence.

Author: I've adopted this suggestion, but I didn't commit it because I don't like to commit suggestions. It causes rebasing problems for me.

You are welcome to customize or reword this boilerplate text as needed.
Alternatively, you can write your own project's statement of purpose from scratch.}

{Project name} and its members, contributors, sponsors, and leaders pledge to make participation in our community a positive, inclusive, and safe experience for all.
{Project name} encourages contributions from everyone who shares our goals and wants to participate in a healthy, constructive, and professional manner.

This Code of Conduct aims to support a community where all people should feel safe to participate, to introduce new ideas, and to inspire others.
This includes everyone, regardless of: ability, age, background, body size or type, caste, disability (either visible or invisible), education, ethnicity, family status, gender, gender identity and expression, geographic location, level of

> experience, marital status, nationality or national origin, native language, personal appearance, race, religion, sexual identity and orientation, socio-economic status, or any other dimension of diversity.

Reviewer 2: Praise: love this long list, and how it's alphabetical! ♥

Reviewer: Praise: So well thought through list!

Openness and respectful collaboration are core values at {Project name}.
We are committed to being a community that everyone feels good about joining, and we will always work to treat everyone well.
No matter how you identify yourself or how others perceive you, you are welcome.
We gain strength from diversity and actively seek participation from those who enhance it.

These guidelines exist to enable all {Project name} community members to collaborate effectively.
As such, this document outlines both expected behavior and behavior that will not be tolerated.
The Code of Conduct isn’t an exhaustive list of things that you must do or can’t do.
Rather, take it in the spirit in which it’s intended.
It’s a set of guidelines to make it easier to enrich our community.

## Expected behavior

We expect our members, contributors, and leaders to:

- Participate in the community actively and authentically. Your meaningful contributions add to the health and longevity of this community.

> - When you make commitments to other members of the project, do your best to keep those commitments. Other community members will trust you and build confidence in you if you fulfill your promises. If something may prevent you from keeping a commitment or if you discover you won't be able to complete a task on time, try to notify others as soon as possible.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- When you make commitments, do your best to keep those commitments. Other community members will trust you and build confidence in you if you fulfill your promises. If something may prevent you from keeping a commitment or if you discover you won't be able to complete a task on time, try to notify others as soon as possible.

```
suggestion (logic): I stumbled on this when reading. Am I always making comitments to members? I think it's the "to". Maybe I'm comitting to a task. ? Anyway, I think it stands if we remove this phrase. And bonus, we cut word count.

Author: I've adopted this suggestion, but I didn't commit it.

- Attempt collaboration before conflict. Seek out and be respectful of differing opinions, styles, viewpoints, and experiences.
- Give and accept constructive feedback, gracefully. When expressing disagreement, be professional and respectful. Be open to learning from and educating others where needed.
- Demonstrate empathy and kindness toward other people. Be considerate and respectful in your word choice, speech, and actions. Show respect with the terms you use to address others.

> - Look out for those around you in the community, especially if you are in a position of influence. Alert our {Project name} {link to your community moderators document [community moderators](../our-team/template-our_team.md)} if you notice a dangerous situation, someone in distress, or violations of this Code of Conduct, even if they seem inconsequential.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Look out for those around you in the community, especially if you are in a position of influence. Alert {Project name} {link to your community moderators document [community moderators](../our-team/template-our_team.md)} if you notice a dangerous situation, someone in distress, or violations of this Code of Conduct, even if they seem inconsequential.

```
question: Just thinking that once the placeholders are filled in here, the "our" might not work. Perhaps a "the" instead?

Author: I can see that. I've adopted this suggestion without committing it.

- Gracefully accept responsibility and apologize to those affected by any mistakes, whether made intentionally or unintentionally. If someone says they have been harmed through your words or actions, listen carefully, make amends, learn from the experience, and correct the behavior going forward.

> - Focus on what is best for the overall community, not just for us as individuals. Ensure that leadership roles and opportunities are well-distributed across the community membership and not just centered in one person or the same few people. To help our community develop and build up leaders at every level of the {Project name}, ensure that you share knowledge with others as much as possible and be mindful of fostering healthy dialogue where no one voice dominates a conversation.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Focus on what is best for the overall community, not just for individuals. Ensure that leadership roles and opportunities are well-distributed across the community membership and not just centered on one person or the same few people. To help our community develop and build up leaders at every level of the {Project name}, ensure that you share knowledge with others as much as possible and be mindful of fostering healthy dialogue where no one voice dominates a conversation.

```
issue: first mention of "us". As a reader, I'm not sure who that is referring to. I mean, in terms of the author, the reader, the project, the community - who is the "us"? I think it's better to remove the word to remove the potential confusion.
typo (grammar): do you center in or center on?

Reviewer: typo: change community membership to community members.

Author: I've partially adopted this suggestion, partially rejected it. I've made some changes.

## Behavior that will not be tolerated

The following behaviors are unacceptable within our community, whether they occur online, offline, privately, or publicly:

> - Violent threats or language directed against another person.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Violent language or threats directed against another person.

```
suggestion (logic): Swap the phrases here so that the "directed against" follows the word threat. You don't often 'direct language against'. 
It also escalates nicely in the sentence (language > threat).

Author: I've adopted this change.

- Sexist, racist, or otherwise discriminatory jokes and language.

> - Deliberate intimidation, stalking, or following (online or in person).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- Deliberate intimidation, following, or stalking (online or in person).

```
suggestion (non-blocking): changed to make the sentence escalate.

Author: I've adopted this change.

- Excessive or unnecessary profanity.
- Deliberate misgendering.
- Knowingly making harmful false claims about a person.
- Pushing a person to drink alcohol when they don’t want to drink, or deceiving someone into drinking alcohol.
- Marketing to our community members either individually or collectively without their express approval. Solicitations on behalf of your business should be restricted to designated channels or areas. For more information about appropriate ways to market your business to the community, ask one of the {Project name} {link to your community moderators document [community moderators](../our-team/template-our_team.md)}.
- Repeatedly communicating with a community member who has asked you to leave them alone.
- Sustained disruption of community events, including meetings and presentations.
- Recording or photography at community meetings and events without explicit permission.
- Advocating for, or encouraging, any of the above behavior.
- Other conduct which could reasonably be considered inappropriate in a professional setting.

## Consequences of unacceptable behavior

> Unacceptable behavior from any {Project name} community member, contributor, sponsors, or leaders will not be tolerated.

Reviewer: suggestion: Can we remove {Project name}? I just tried replacing it with an actual project name and it didn't sound right to me.

Author: Hmmm... It doesn't sound right to you? It sounds right to me:

"Unacceptable behavior from any Salt Project community member..."

"Unacceptable behavior from any Good Docs Project community member..."

Can you tell me more about what doesn't sound right to you?

We expect everyone to comply with requests to stop unacceptable behavior immediately.

> If a community member engages in unacceptable behavior, any community member or moderator should report the incident to the {Project name} {link to your community moderators document [community moderators](../our-team/template-our_team.md)}.

Reviewer: suggestion: At the top we say that unacceptable behavior from any community member, sponsor, leader, etc. will not be   tolerated. Going by the same logic, can we change the next point to?
If **anyone** in the community engages in unacceptable behavior, any community member or contributor can report the incident.

Author: Sounds good. Adopted.

The moderators will investigate the incident to determine the incident’s severity and overall impact to the community.
See our {link to your [Code of Conduct response plan](template-code-of-conduct-response-plan.md)} for more details.

Depending on the risk and impact level, the moderators may respond by requiring:

> - **Correction:** A private, written warning from community moderators, providing clarity around the nature of the violation and an explanation of why the behavior was inappropriate and what behavior is expected going forward. A public apology may be requested.

Reviewer 2: I'm desperate to put a comma in here somewhere. Yes/no? It is a long sentence, so another suggestion would be to break it up somehow.

Author: Good catch. I've revised it.

> - **Warning:** A warning with consequences for continued behavior. No interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction with community moderators, for a specified period of time. This includes avoiding interactions in community spaces as well as external channels like social media. Violating these terms may lead to a temporary or permanent ban.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Warning:** A warning with consequences for continued behavior. No interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction with community moderators, is allowed for a specified period of time. This includes avoiding interactions in community spaces as well as external channels like social media. Violating these terms may lead to a temporary or permanent ban.

```
missing a verb.

Author: Good point! I've revised this section a bit, though slightly differently than how you phrased it.

- **Temporary ban:** A temporary ban from any sort of interaction or public communication with the community for a specified period of time. No public or private interaction with the people involved, including unsolicited interaction with community moderators, is allowed during this period. Violating these terms may lead to a permanent ban. Readmittance to the community usually requires an additional meeting with a community moderator to ensure future compliance.
- **Permanent ban:** A permanent ban from any sort of public interaction within the community.

The action taken is at the discretion of the {Project name} {link to your community moderators document [community moderators](../our-team/template-our_team.md)}.
Participants are expected to comply immediately, and further action may be taken in case a participant does not comply.

> Every community member is entitled to one appeal using the same process for reporting a Code of Conduct incident.

Reviewer 2: Want to put a link on 'Code of Conduct' so the reader can jump to that "same process" if they want?

Author: Sure, I've added an additional link to that process here.

Community members are expected to comply with the requested action while appeals are being considered.
After an appeal has been resolved, the decision is considered final.

## Reporting an incident

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported to one of the {Project name}
{link to your community moderators document [community moderators](../our-team/template-our_team.md)}.
If you would like to discuss your concerns or if you have personally experienced unacceptable behavior, please reach out to a community moderator as soon as possible.
Please reach out to report any potential violations of these guidelines, even if the situation is not happening to you.

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Report any instances of unacceptable behavior to one of the {Project name}
{link to your community moderators document [community moderators](../our-team/template-our_team.md)}.

Please reach out as soon as possible if:

* You would like to discuss your concerns.
* You have personally experienced unacceptable behavior,
* You want to report a situation happening to someone else.

```

suggestion: Not sold on my re-write here, but I felt like this section was repetitive and also, a bit passive. I had a bash (not sold on the bullets, I was just playing around)—feel free to reject and make your own changes. I wanted to bring the directive up higher. After scanning the heading, the first thing I want to know, as a reader, is how do I report an incident? Are we really just pointing reader to a list of member - we don't point them to a form instead?

Author: Sounds good. I like the bullet points. I've kept them and added some introductory text.

## Addressing Code of Conduct reports

Instances of abusive, harassing, or otherwise unacceptable behavior may be reported to one of the {Project name}

> {link to your community moderators document [community moderators](../our-team/template-our_team.md)}.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

```
suggestion (repeat): This text is repeated from the 'Reporting an incident' section. Was that on purpose? I think it belongs better there rather than here.

Author: I've adopted this suggestion.

All complaints will be reviewed and investigated promptly and fairly.
If possible, community moderators will recuse themselves in cases where there is a conflict of interest.
See our {link to your [Code of Conduct response plan](template-code-of-conduct-response-plan.md)} for more details.

An internal record will be kept of all incidents.
However, all community leaders are obligated to respect the privacy and security of the reporter of any incident.
In some cases, community moderators may determine that a public statement will need to be made.
If that's the case, the identities of all victims and reporters will remain confidential unless those individuals instruct us otherwise.

> If you feel you have been unfairly accused of violating these guidelines, please follow the same reporting process to request an appeal.

Reviewer 2: As a reader, I'd like a link on the "same reporting process" or at least some way I can find that, so I can jump straight to the process.

Author: It's there. It's the Code of Conduct Response Plan.
